Well done, you've made
it through the first
week of lectures.
This week was all
about estimating
value functions and finding
optimal policies using
only experience from
the environment.
We saw on-policy and
off-policy Monte Carlo,
and revisited the exploration
problem from bandits.
Let's review
the materials so far.
Monte Carlo algorithms
are sample-based methods.
They can be used
when the model is
unavailable or hard
to write down.
Monte Carlo algorithms estimate
value functions by averaging
over multiple observed returns.
They wait for the full return
before updating their values.
Therefore, we use Monte Carlo
only for episodic MDPs.
We discussed how
Monte Carlo can be used
inside generalized
policy iteration.
This led to our first
sample-based control algorithm,
Monte Carlo with
exploring starts.
Monte Carlo algorithms
don't do sweeps over
the state action space
like dynamic programming,
so they need an
exploration mechanism to
ensure that they learn about
every state action pair.
We first considered
exploring starts.
Exploring starts requires that
the first state and action are
chosen randomly at
the beginning of every episode.
It is not always feasible
or safe to use exploring starts.
Just imagine trying to do
exploring starts with
an autonomous car.
This realization motivated us to
investigate additional
exploration methods.
We cover two other strategies
for the exploration problem.
Learning on policy with
Epsilon-soft policies
and learning off-policy.
For the first strategy,
the agent follows and learns
about a stochastic policy.
It usually takes
the greedy action.
A small fraction of the time
it takes a random action.
This way the value estimates for
all state action pairs are
guaranteed to continue
to improve over time.
This on policy strategy
forced us to learn
a near optimal policy instead
of an optimal policy.
But what if we want to learn
an optimal policy but still
maintain exploration?
The answer lies with
off-policy learning.
We introduce some new definitions
for off-policy learning,
so let's review them.
A behavior policy
is the policy that
the agent uses to select actions.
A target policy is
the policy that
the agent learns about
in its value function.
By sending an appropriate
exploratory behavior policy,
the agent can learn about
any deterministic target policy.
One way to learn about
one policy while
falling another is to
use importance sampling.
Importance sampling
allows the agent
to estimate the expected return
under the target policy from
experience sampled under
the behavior policy.
The ratio re-weights the samples.
It increases the importance of
returns that were more
likely to be seen
under Pi and it decreases
those that were unlikely.
The sample average
effectively contains
the right proportion
of each return so
that in in expectation it is as
if the returns had
been sampled under Pi.
That's all for this module.
Next we'll talk about one of
the most fundamental concepts
in reinforcement learning,
Temporal Difference
Learning. See you then.